---
layout: default
description: Research Papers
--- 

<p align="center"><strong>Published:</strong></p>
<p><details><summary><a href='https://doi.org/10.1177/00222429211047237' target="_blank"> Minimum Payments Alter Debt Repayment Strategies across Multiple Cards</a><br>
  (with <a href="https://faculty.chicagobooth.edu/abigail-sussman"> Abigail B. Sussman</a>)<br> <i>Journal of Marketing </i>, December, 2021</summary>
  <p>
    <b>Abstract:</b>
US Households currently hold $770 billion in credit card debt, often managing repayments across multiple accounts. We investigate how minimum payments (i.e., the requirement to allocate at least some money to each account with a balance) alter consumers’ allocation strategies across multiple accounts. Across four experiments, we find that minimum payment requirements cause consumers to increase dispersion (i.e., spread their repayments more evenly) across accounts. We term this change in strategy the dispersion effect of minimum payments and provide evidence that it can be costly for consumers. We find that the effect is partially driven by the tendency for consumers to interpret minimum payment requirements as recommendations to pay more than the minimum amount. While the presence of the minimum payment requirement is unlikely to change, we propose that marketers and policymakers can influence the effects of minimum payments on dispersion by altering the way that information is displayed to consumers. Specifically, we investigate five distinct information displays and find that choice of display can either exaggerate or minimize dispersion and corresponding costs. We discuss implications for consumers, policy makers, and firms, with a particular focus on ways to improve consumer financial well-being.
   </p>
   </details>
  <p><details><summary> 
  <span class="fn"> <a href="https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3465246" target="_blank">Ownership, Learning, and Beliefs </a> </span> <br> (with <a href="https://sites.google.com/site/samhartzmark/">Samuel M. Hartzmark</a> and <a href="http://www.aleximas.com/"> Alex Imas</a>) <br> <i>Quarterly Journal of Economics</i>, August, 2021 
  </summary>
  <p>
    <b>Abstract:</b>
    We study how ownership affects learning and beliefs. Using an experimental asset market, we find that owning a good leads people to over-extrapolate from signals about its underlying value: after seeing positive signals, people become too optimistic, after seeing negative signals, they become too pessimistic. This result holds relative to a Bayesian benchmark and compared to learning about goods they do not own. In fact, learning is less biased and more "correct" about goods that are not owned. We replicate these results in field data, showing that asset owners over-extrapolate nearly twice as much as non-owners from the same signals. 
   
   </p>
  </details>
 
 <p> <details><summary><a href='/public/pandp.20181095.pdf'> Mental Budgeting vs. Relative Thinking</a>
  <br> (with <a href="https://faculty.chicagobooth.edu/devin.pope/">  Devin G. Pope</a> and Jihong Song)<br>  <i>AEA Papers and Proceedings</i>, May, 2018 </summary>
    <p>  <b>Abstract:</b>
    A growing literature uses economic behaviors in field settings to test predictions generated by various psychological models. In some cases, psychological theories make conflicting predictions for the same consumer context. In this paper, we attempt to reconcile two conflicting predictions about upgrading behavior, one made by category budgeting (e.g.,Heath and Soll, 1996, Thaler, 1985)—which suggests people will upgrade less as prices go up—and one made by relative thinking (e.g., Kahneman and Tversky, 1981)—which suggests people will upgrade more as prices go up.
    </p>
    </details>
  <br>
<p align="center"><strong>Working Papers:</strong>

    <p><details><summary> As Wages Increase, Do People Work More or Less? A Wage Frame Effect <br>(with <a href="http://www.luxishen.com/"> Luxi Shen</a>)<br> revise and resubmit <i>Management Science</i></summary>
<p>
    <b>Abstract:</b>
In jobs in which workers have the flexibility to decide how much work to supply, such as in the gig economy, the effect of a wage change on work supply can be hard to predict. A wage increase, for example, offers workers the opportunity to make more money, so they may want to work more, but at the same time, it allows them to enjoy more leisure, so they do not need to work so much. Economic theory alone does not predict which outcome is more likely to occur, and empirical evidence on the short-term effect of wage change on work supply is also mixed. This research provides some psychological insights into this economic problem by showing that the effect of wage change on work supply depends on how the change is framed. Specifically, for a worker who used to work A hours to earn $X, if the wage change is presented as a payment change (“work the same A hours and earn $Y”), then work supply is expected to change in the same direction as the wage change. By contrast, if the wage change is presented as a workload change (“work B hours and earn the same $X”), then work supply is expected to change in the opposite direction of the wage change. This wage frame effect occurs because in multi-attribute decisions, decision makers assign greater weight to attributes that change than to those that remain constant. A series of experiments (total N = 2,599) demonstrates the wage frame effect on both expressed willingness-to-work and actual work performance, and tests the proposed account as well as alternative explanations. Since any wage change has to be communicated with some specific frame, the choice of the frame can have powerful effects. In fact, it is even possible for a wage decrease to elicit the same increase in work supply as a wage increase. This research (a) offers psychological insights into a classic economic problem, (b) documents a novel framing effect for the judgment and decision-making literature, and (c) suggests a nudge idea in incentive designs to managers and policy makers.
</p>
</details>
   
<p align="center"><strong>Works in Progress:</strong>
  
</p>
<p><details><summary> The Interplay of Beliefs and Preferences in Driving the Disposition Effect </summary>
  <p> <b>Abstract:</b>

I examine how biased beliefs interact with preferences to produce one of the most well-studied behavioral anomalies in finance, the disposition effect. I find that participants' beliefs are conservative relative to Bayesian. Participants are more likely to sell goods that a Bayesian would believe are more likely to go up in price; however, they are less likely to sell goods they believe are more likely to go up in price. Then, using both reduced form and structural estimates, I compare the preference parameters necessary to rationalize the disposition effect using Bayesian beliefs, as is standard, to those estimated using subjective beliefs. I find that using participants' subjective beliefs implies a larger influence of realization utility in selling decisions. 
  </p>
  </details>
  <!---
<p><details><summary> Body-Worn Cameras and Racial Disparities in Policing: Evidence from the NYPD </summary>
  <p> <b>Abstract:</b>

Racial disparities plague the American criminal justice system and disproportionately impact Black Americans. Local governments face substantial challenges in improving the quality of policing and many are looking for implementable changes. One popular proposal to improve policing is the use of Body-Worn Cameras (BWCs), which record officers' interactions with civilians, and are supposed to increase police accountability. My paper focuses specifically on the racial dynamics of police interactions following introduction of BWCs to the New York Police Department's (NYPD) precincts. I document a significant increase in stops of Black New Yorkers relative to white New Yorkers after the introduction of BWCs to a precinct. The increases in stops are accompanied by increases in arrests and use of force. I provide suggestive evidence, using data on discretionary arrests, that the cameras improve reporting quality suggesting previous underreporting to the SQF database. 
  </p>
  </details>

<p><details><summary> Ownership Alters Learning and Beliefs about Products <br> (with Abigail B. Sussman, Samuel M. Hartzmark and Alex Imas) 
  </summary>
  <p> <b>Abstract:</b>
    Consumers often make repeated purchase decisions. We investigate how owning a product alters learning about the owned goods as well as other products in the same category or made by the same brand. Across both experimentally controlled and naturally occurring purchase behavior, we show that owners (vs. non-owners) update their beliefs more extremely in response to new information. This exacerbates the effects of motivated reasoning in the positive domain, but attenuates it in the negative domain where it can even become more pessimistic than non-owners. We propose that differential attention to information drives these patterns of updating. Owners also report higher likelihood than non-owners of purchasing another product from a brand with a better product in our assessment task, but are no more likely to do so for for a brand with a worse product. Our results suggest that ownership alters the way consumers incorporate new information about related products and brands into their beliefs. 
   </p>
  </details>
  

<p><details><summary> When is Now?: Empirical Tests of Quasi-Hyperbolic Discounting <br>(with  <a href="https://home.uchicago.edu/bartels/">  Daniel M. Bartels</a>)</summary>
   <p> <b>Abstract:</b>
Quasi-hyperbolic discounting (Laibson, 1997) is often used to model excessive impatience. Our project aims to better understand (i) how quasi-hyperbolic people’s preferences are and (ii) if they are, when does “now” end and the future start? We find “now" periods including tomorrow and a week outperform a "now" period only including today, though all outperform an exponential model. In addition, participants’ best fitting "now” periods are sensitive to magnitudes. Even participants’ responses to questions with a year delay are best fit by a two-parameter model, a pattern inconsistent with the predictions of the quasi-hyperbolic model. 
 </p>
 </details>
--->
 
<p> <details><summary>Metrics for detecting the ‘hot hand’ in basketball using waiting time properties of binomial distributions (with<a href="http://www.codowd.com/"> Connor Dowd</a> and Nick Polson)</summary></details>
  
